Hello, everyone, and welcome to this course on building an Instagram like application for Android.
Now in this first video, I want to give you a quick overview of what we're going to be building and
how this is basically going to work.
So we're going to use a lot of cutting edge technologies to build this application.
We're going to use Jetpack Compose, which was released quite recently by Google.
So we're going to use it by compose.
We're going to use NVMe for the architecture and we're going to use Firebase for the backend.
OK, so that will allow us a lot of flexibility in building our application, but also it will allow
us to scale the application if we want to.
So after taking this course, if you want to scale this application, solidify it and publish it, then
you can do so.
But in this first video, I just want to give you a quick overview of what we're going to be building
kind of the high level view of the screens that we're going to work with.
So here we have our application that is running.
So I have here a log in screen.
Of course, log in will connect using Firebase authentication to the backend, and we can switch between
a login screen and a sign up screen here.
So let's go ahead and sign up.
I'm going to create a username you can do.
You can pretty much write anything you like.
I'm going to have Kotlin because that's my name and cattle at Gmail dot com.
Now, keep in mind, this is not a real email.
This does not belong to me, so please don't send emails there.
All right.
And I'm going to set a password and I'm going to click Sign up now.
This will communicate in the backend with the Firebase authentication to create the user and retrieve
the data that we need.
So here we have our basic UI, Instagram like UI.
We have an image here at the top, which we haven't set yet, so it's going to be a default.
Unknown user.
And then we're going to have a feed.
I've set here a few posts on our on our application just for show right now.
Here we have a profile screen where we can go ahead and edit our profile.
So here I can set a image, for example, I can choose this image here.
And that has been saved on our fire based storage, and now we have it India, so I can set my name
here and I set a bio.
This is the profile of in.
And I can put a.
Icon here, OK, now I'm going to go ahead and save.
All right, and if I go back, I have my profile, you can see here I have zero posts for now, I have
zero followers and zero following.
So in order to create a post, I'm going to click here.
Then I'm going to select an image and.
I'm going to select Bangkok, and I'm going to say Bangkok is awesome.
Let me just.
All right, let me type that correctly.
Awesome.
OK, and I'm going to click Post now, that's going to upload, of course.
And now I have my post now, of course, I can post more images or I can edit my profile.
But let's have a look at other features.
So for example, we have our home screen, which has a feed of basically of posts that have been posted
in the last 24 hours.
Now this will contain basically all the posts as long as I'm not following anybody, right?
So I have zero zero followers at the moment, so I will see kind of a generic post feeds here.
But if I go, for example to this post in particular, I can follow Alex.
OK.
And then when I go back to my main screen, I only see the posts from my followers.
OK, so here if I go to my profile, I have one following and the same goes for the followers.
If somebody follows me, I will have this updated here.
Now what else can we do?
We can like a post.
So for example, I like this post.
I'm going to double click on it and I have my like.
If I double click again, I will unlock it.
OK, so if I double click like if I do a single click here, I will move to a post screen where I can
see my likes.
I can see the comment for that post.
And also, I have my comment.
So if I go ahead and comment something, Tokyo is cool.
OK, I comment that I see my comment appear here.
And if I go back, OK, I can see that we have a comment and a light.
All right.
Let's go back.
And again, I have another screen here for searching, so if I search for city search that I get a list
of POWs now here we can have as many posts as there are in the backend.
This is a scrolling list.
OK, so if the posts do not sit on the screen, you will be able to scroll up and see all the posts.
And here, of course, if I click on a post, then I have the information for that particular post.
OK, I have here, Maria, which I can follow.
And then I can go back and I have now two followers.
So this is the main structure for our application.
This looks quite simple from kind of an overview perspective, but it will involve quite a lot of technology
behind the scenes.
OK, so like I said, we will work with Jetpack Compose, so you will get a very, very good idea of
how Jetpack Compose works in an application.
You will see how we integrate just by compose with an empty VM architecture, so you will rely on a
view model to kind of give us all the data.
And then of course, we will work with Firebase.
OK, so we will see Firebase authentication, storage and fire store for kind of the database side of
things.
So a lot of technologies, a lot of screens, a lot of functionality, and we will go through it step
by step and hopefully you will learn a lot in this course and you will get a lot of value from it.
So that's it for the first video, I will see you in the next one.